eleven secrets to memorize things
quicker than others have you seen the
movie limitless I don't know I forget if
you have you probably remember the main
character who found a special pill that
allowed him to recall all experience and
knowledge and use it whenever he needed
to if only this were true we learn
things throughout our entire lives but
we don't know everything because we
forget a lot of information why does
this happen how could we remember things
much better
well bright side will tell you about
some simple memorizing tips and a
universal formula that will retrieve any
information from your memory when you
need it for starters let's talk about
why we forget things your brain is like
a hard drive the space is limited
remember Sherlock Holmes he couldn't
name all the planets of the solar system
this was not because he missed school or
something like that but because he was
too smart to have such irrelevant
information in his memory he
deliberately erased facts he would never
need this is what your brain does it
protects you from overloading with
information that's why all new data is
stored in the short-term memory not the
long one so if you don't repeat it or
use it you forget it very quickly
a German psychologist Hermann Ebbinghaus
researched the memory and its mechanisms
he described the forgetting curve which
shows that just one hour after learning
something new we forget more than half
of the learned information I'm sorry
what was that anyway one day later we
remember only about 30% well you can see
where this is going
so how to remember everything there is a
memorization technique called spaced
repetition to keep some information in
your head for a longer time you need to
try to put it into your long-term memory
forced memorization is not very
effective in this case because your
brain can't make sense of the
information quickly and form strong
associations here it all depends on the
reason why you are learning something
how to memorize something quickly the
first situation is when you need to
learn the information quickly use it
once and forget most of it this looks
like a typical exam preparation right if
you've been in a situation where you had
only one night to prepare for an exam
get this video alike to memorize
something quickly repeat the information
right after learning it the second
repetition should be after 15 to 20
minutes you don't need to return to the
information between repetitions just
rest and do something different let your
brain relax
repeat the learn material the third time
after 6 to 8 hours and you should have
the final repetition 24 hours after the
first contact with the information try
this method next time you need to
memorize something quickly and tell us
how it worked in the comment section
don't forget okay now how to memorize
something for a long time if you want to
remember things for a long time you need
to extend the memorization period here's
the memorization plan the first
repetition should be right after
learning just like in the previous
technique repeat the material after 20
to 30 minutes and here things are
different
the third repetition should be only
after one day
the next one after two to three weeks
and the final round is after two to
three months this way you can learn
something for a very long time because
the brain thinks that if you return to
the information it means that it's
necessary so it doesn't get erased now
here are eleven simple tips that will
help you memorize things easier and
faster counting down from number eleven
try to understand what you learn you
probably know the feeling when you're
learning something but you don't
understand the information usually such
learning turns into a nightmare because
it looks like learning a poem that has
no Arai another bad thing about learning
something you don't understand is that
if you forget some part of it you will
not be able to continue because you have
only memorized the order of words not
their actual meaning that's why we don't
recommend doing it this way what you
should do is read the entire piece of
information and figure out what the main
point or points are try to retell what
you have read using your own words do it
as simply as you can if you are
successful that means you understood the
information and now it will be way
easier to memorize the details number 10
learn the most necessary information if
you feel like you have too much on your
plate set your priorities correctly
decide what you have to know and what
you can do without just fine after that
focus on the key parts of what you need
to memorize if you find some time to
devote to the less important information
great
number nine serial position effect no
this is not when you position your
Cheerios on the right side with learning
something new remember this things that
are at the beginning and the end are
memorized the best use this effect to
your advantage
sort the information so that the key
parts are at the beginning and at the
end number eight interference theory
switch your attention from one topic to
another from one activity to another for
example you're preparing for a public
talk you've learned the text for 15
minutes it's time to take a break rest
every 15 to 20 minutes because this is
the period when attention is at its best
and people usually stop being attentive
so the best thing you can do is switch
to something completely different like
playing the guitar or watching a
Brightside video another thing you
should be careful with is learning some
similar information interference theory
suggests that similar memories get mixed
and become a mess that's why if you know
you're about to learn something that at
least remotely resembles what you've
already learned we recommend taking a
long break before starting something new
number seven learn opposite things
opposites are easily memorized in pairs
for example if you're learning a new
language memorized day and night
together this way you will build a
connection between these two things in
your mind so if you forget one of them
the second one will help you recall
number six build your own mind palace
and this is about Sherlock Holmes again
do you remember how he could travel in
his mind palace for hours looking for
the necessary information could ask me
to get my mind Palace the idea is to
associate certain things with a certain
place for example if you are in your
room try to connect the thing you are
learning to something in your room
repeat it a few times after that
to recall what the room looks like in
your memory and repeat the things you
learned this way or try this divided all
the material you need to memorize into a
few parts learn these parts in different
parts of your apartment or better in
different places in your city
this way the memorized information won't
be something dull or boring it will be
associated with some other memories
smells of places people you saw there
and so on number five use nail words the
point of this technique is to nail one
learned thing to another for example if
you need to memorize the French for nail
you should also look up wall hammer and
other words you can logically connect to
nail number four make up stories if you
need to memorize a lot of information in
a particular order try to put the pieces
into a story it's important that the
pieces are connected to each other with
some kind of plot so if you accidentally
forget something you can always recall
what was supposed to happen next in the
story yes this might seem like you need
even more effort but it's true believe
us it works wonders number three use a
tape recorder actually does anybody use
a tape recorder anymore well record the
information somehow you are learning and
listen to the recording a few times yes
it might take you some time to get used
to the sound of your voice like I had to
do it might seem strange or unpleasant
in the beginning this method is handy
because it allows all types of memory
work first you read the information so
you saw it with your eyes and then you
heard it with your ears the more contact
you have with what you are learning the
better you memorize it number two
visualize
use your body language when learning
this will help you trigger your muscle
memory and number one choose only the
best materials don't use outdated books
and methods of learning things have
changed a lot since the books were
written don't waste your time on
something that may turn out to be wrong
go online and check the most recent
information on the subject do you know
any other memorizing tips if yes share
them in the comment section below like
this video and send it to your friends
and of course don't forget how can you
forget anything after watching this
video don't forget to click the
subscribe button to join us on the
bright side